README.md, before:

# IntoTheBreachLua

This library works as a proxy for multiple DLLs for the [Into the Breach](https://subsetgames.com/itb.html) game in order to provide additional functionality to the modding community. 

## Installation
This library is not used directly for modding, instead you should download [kartoFlane's modloader](https://github.com/kartoFlane/ITB-ModLoader) which ships a release of this dll.

## Building

This section describes how to build this project.

1. Install [Visual Studio](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/downloads/). The community edition should work, but it is not tested with Visual Studio Code at this time.
2. Download [Windows SDK version 8.1](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/downloads/sdk-archive/).
3. Open the project solution `IntoTheBreachLua.sln` in Visual Studio
4. Right click on the project and properties and click "Configuration Manager...".
5. Ensure "Platform" is set to "Win32" and "Configuration" is "Release" for all builds, and "Active Solution Platform" is set to "x86".
6. Exit configuration manager and properties.
7. Right click the solution and click "Rebuild Solution"
8. The output "SDL2.dll" should appear in the releases folder.

## Error reporting
Lua errors that happen in game are dumped to error.txt file. If something doesn't work right in your script and the game is being secretive about what exactly, check errors.txt.

## Overloading lua5.1.dll functions
This section is for those who wish to overload the functionality of Lua library function that the game uses.

For example, error reporting and autoexec functionality is made possible by overloading.

The ```HOOK(name,rettype,args)``` macro from ```lua5.1.h``` allows you to write your own wrapper (or implementation) for exported lua functions.
Arguments are:
- ```name``` - The name of lua function, without quotes. It has to be one of about hundred functions explored by the dll, or you will get compilation errors.
- ```rettype``` - return type of the lua function.
- ```args``` - list of arguments inside parentheses.

Additionally, a static pointer to pointer to function is created when you use the macro, with name dll_<name> (it's named dll_lua_tolstring in example above), and it can be used to call the function from original dll like this:

```c
const char *myString = (*dll_lua_tolstring)(L, idx, len);
```

Here is example usage:
```c
HOOK(lua_tolstring, const char *, (lua_State *L, int idx, size_t *len)) {
	// put your implementation here
	log("lua_tolstring was called by the game!\n");

	// this is a call to lua_tolstring function from actual Lua dll.
	return (*dll_lua_tolstring)(L, idx, len);
}
```

By default, lua functions are exported using exports.def file with names like ```__E__102__```. Those functions are generated automatically and are implemented in ```lua5.1.cc```. When you use the ```HOOK``` macro to reimplement one of those functions, you have to remove corresponding line from ```exports.def```.

Some functions are already reimplemented in ```lua-hooks.cc```.

If you want to use any of lua functions in your code, you have to reimplement them using the HOOK macro, even if reimplementation does nothing but calls the original.

Commit message:

Update readme - automated build workflow

README.md, after:

# IntoTheBreachLua

This library works as a proxy for multiple DLLs for the [Into the Breach](https://subsetgames.com/itb.html) game in order to provide additional functionality to the modding community. 

## Installation
This library is not used directly for modding, instead you should download [kartoFlane's modloader](https://github.com/kartoFlane/ITB-ModLoader) which ships a release of this dll.

## Building

This section describes how to build this project.

### Automatic build - GitHub Actions

This project has a manual action pipeline which builds the "SDL2.dll", and stores it as an artifact. This is the easiest / recommended way to build, unless you need to rapidly develop and test features, in which case local build is the better option.

Project members can go to Actions tab, select MSBuild workflow, click on the "Run workflow" dropdown, and then on the green "Run workflow" button to start the workflow. It takes several minutes to complete, and when it does, "SDL2.dll" will be available in the workflow's artifacts section.

### Local build

1. Install [Visual Studio](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/downloads/). The community edition should work, but it is not tested with Visual Studio Code at this time.
2. Download [Windows SDK version 8.1](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/downloads/sdk-archive/).
3. Open the project solution `IntoTheBreachLua.sln` in Visual Studio
4. Right click on the project and properties and click "Configuration Manager...".
5. Ensure "Platform" is set to "Win32" and "Configuration" is "Release" for all builds, and "Active Solution Platform" is set to "x86".
6. Exit configuration manager and properties.
7. Right click the solution and click "Rebuild Solution"
8. The output "SDL2.dll" should appear in the releases folder.

## Error reporting
Lua errors that happen in game are dumped to error.txt file. If something doesn't work right in your script and the game is being secretive about what exactly, check errors.txt.

## Overloading lua5.1.dll functions
This section is for those who wish to overload the functionality of Lua library function that the game uses.

For example, error reporting and autoexec functionality is made possible by overloading.

The ```HOOK(name,rettype,args)``` macro from ```lua5.1.h``` allows you to write your own wrapper (or implementation) for exported lua functions.
Arguments are:
- ```name``` - The name of lua function, without quotes. It has to be one of about hundred functions explored by the dll, or you will get compilation errors.
- ```rettype``` - return type of the lua function.
- ```args``` - list of arguments inside parentheses.

Additionally, a static pointer to pointer to function is created when you use the macro, with name dll_<name> (it's named dll_lua_tolstring in example above), and it can be used to call the function from original dll like this:

```c
const char *myString = (*dll_lua_tolstring)(L, idx, len);
```

Here is example usage:
```c
HOOK(lua_tolstring, const char *, (lua_State *L, int idx, size_t *len)) {
	// put your implementation here
	log("lua_tolstring was called by the game!\n");

	// this is a call to lua_tolstring function from actual Lua dll.
	return (*dll_lua_tolstring)(L, idx, len);
}
```

By default, lua functions are exported using exports.def file with names like ```__E__102__```. Those functions are generated automatically and are implemented in ```lua5.1.cc```. When you use the ```HOOK``` macro to reimplement one of those functions, you have to remove corresponding line from ```exports.def```.

Some functions are already reimplemented in ```lua-hooks.cc```.

If you want to use any of lua functions in your code, you have to reimplement them using the HOOK macro, even if reimplementation does nothing but calls the original.
